In Exercise 05, we are going to be working
on fleshing out this drag and drop.
This is probably gonna be one
of the harder exercises to do,
because there's a lot of things
we need to keep track of.
But first, let's think about how drag and
drop sort of works.
At first, something, or whatever
we're dragging, is in an idle state.
And in that state, nothing happens.
But once we have mousedown,
we're recording where on
that object it was clicked.
So in this case,
it was clicked a little bit off center.
And so
we're going to assign that to px and py.
And then when we drag, we're going to
be listening for the mousemove event.
And so whenever we get a mousemove event,
we don't change state,
because we're still in dragging.
But instead,
we're going to be updating dx and dy.
And then once our mouse is up, we are
going to set x and y to those new values,
so that we could place that
element where it needs to be.
And so to do this,
we're going to be doing three actions.
The first is assignPoint,
in which we assign those px and
py values from the initial
event.client x and event.client y.
While we're dragging that mousemove event,
we're gonna be assigning the Delta.
And the Delta is just that px value
minus the events.client x value.
So we want to know how far it traveled
from the initial place we clicked.
And same thing with py and
events.client y.
Now when we go to mouseup,
we want to do something different.
We want to assign the x value to
the Points.x, plus how far it's traveled.
So we want to know, okay,
now it's over here.
Or sorry, not the px, but the original
x value, to how far it's traveled.
And then we want to
assign the y to the same.
So that's why we're keeping track of
the Delta, because once our mouse is up,
we need to move those x and
y values by those dx and dy values.
And so that's going to be Exercise 05.
Okay, so Romaine asks,
why should we use assign actions
instead of mutating context directly?
And that's a great question.
Sometimes you might be tempted
to mutate context directly, but
this is going to be important later on,
too.
You want to make sure
that when you're updating context,
you do so based on an event.
If you could just mutate context,
then that could happen at any time,
whether an event happens or not.
So we're not using the model where
we do a mutation undetected.
That's not the model of state machines or
state charts.
Instead, state machines and state charts
say everything happens for a reason.
And that reason is because
an event occurred.
And by keeping pure, we could also
have sort of a similar Redux,
NgRx, ViewX set up,
where we could record the previous
states and keep track of what
those previous contexts were.
Of course, don't worry,
it's garbage collected.
So only if you really want to record
what the previous states were,
you will have that, including the context
in which that previous date occurred.
But in general, do not mutate context,
especially because that might
have unintended side effects.
The machines context is
just a normal object.
So if you accidentally mutate that,
you're going to be mutating every single
service instance that uses that machine,
which is not a good idea.
All right, so this is Exercise 05,
which is context.
So what we're going to be doing is
we're gonna be using context to update
the extended state of our drag and
drop machine.
We're gonna be having three assignments,
which is,
we're assigning the point values.
Which is when you initially click.
We're assigning the Delta values,
which is how far away from those original
point values the mouse has traveled
in a mousemove transition.
And we're going to be assigning
the resting position,
once our mouse is finally up.
And so
start with inline assign action objects.
So this assign, refactor these out of
the machine, once you have them working.
And then you could set those as
configurable actions, if you have time.
So let's just, I'm just gonna show you.
Over here, we have a clue to what
the initial context should be.
We have our x and y values, which
represent the current position of the box.
We have the dx and dy values,
which represent how far it's
traveled while we're dragging.
And we have the px and py values, which
represent where it was originally clicked.
So it doesn't do any jarring
motion while you drag it.
And so, again,
what you're going to wanna do is you're
going to wanna set that context.
So you set that in here, and then you
want these assign actions to occur.
One important note about assign,
assign is a pure function,
assign doesn't do anything.
It returns an object.
So no side effects are happening
in the assign action.
In fact, if we say,
let's actually log this.
So console.log, and let's say,
(assign({name: 'David',.
So when we log this out,
we are going to see,
let's go to Exercise 05.
We're going to see that
it's a plain object.
It has type of xstate.assign,
and it has an assignment.
So its name, David.
And so if we have count:
(context) => context.count + 1.
Remember, this is being
defined outside the machine.
Then we have two assignments.
One of them is for name, and another one
is for count, which is that function.
So assignment does nothing,
actually just knows how to take this
assign action and apply it to the machine.
And it does that when you
transition the machine.
So again, it's a pure function.
It returns an object, and
xstate knows what to do with that object.